so what continue discussing DNS and next
we'll discuss some of the DNS protocol and what some of the data and commands
the sends and receives requests replies in the DNS protocol with us are going to look like
So what the information in DNS
this typically called or called resource records
and remember
as we've introduced DNS
we've described it as being a distributed database
that stores information in this case of storing
these resource records
So
there's a format of these consisting of the name of value
a type
and a time to live
So
there are several types of DNS records Taipei is kind of the simplest type in
that would consist of a name
That is the host name
and a value
That's the IP address
So this is the direct mapping from a hostname into an IP address
Another type in these record resource formats as a type B & S hear the name is a domain
So
say food.com
And the value is a hostname of an authoritative name server for that domain
For the reverse lookups that type PTR would be the name
Represented in that River Squad
notation for doing reverse lookups
And then the value would be the corresponding host name so that we can go from IP address into that hostname
Another type is called a cname or for which stands for canonical name and what this corresponds to an a mapping to a canonical value ride
So for example
the address www.ccs.edu really could correspond to the canonical name
eecs web.mit.edu
So this would let you give that some of the Alias is essentially a final type with you and talk to you much about
But is a m x type and the value for this would be the name of a male server associated with a particular domain
Name could include some other option one formation as well
So within the DNS protocol there
two types of messages queries and replies and they both have the same message for Matt which looks like this
So the message header consists of the variety of pieces of information
These are broken into 16-bit portions
the message
Heather includes a 16-bit number corresponding to the query
the reply
to this query with and use that same number
So
you know
you're getting a response back
basically just labeling
right
Then applying the back where number if you will flags that could be said for options
Like whether whether the type of message is a query or reply
weather
recursion is De loud
Is desired or aloud whether reply is it from an authoritative Source or not
There'd be other fields
including the size of optional header elements that we want
Talk about in depth
So we're going to do next to try to understand a little bit more about how DNS works as well
Go through an interactive
look up using the Unix program called dig with us
Lets you do is that lets you query the DNS system
and then it'll dump the field from the DNS responses
So
basically looking at these DNS protocol messages
so by default that would execute workers Aquarius
which you can disable
We have this option just to set that it's not recursive
So it's just going to operate one step at a time
So that's what we're going to do it through this quick demonstration of this
So let's suppose we want to look up the IP address for cnn.com
specifically www.cnn.com
And we're going to query
one of the root servers
The root servers are down
They're labeled a through M
And you can access them through this route Dash servers
Net domain name
So if you run this command you to get back some responses
some Header information
Of course
In this case
you're sending a query out
The question that you're looking for
is what is the a name
Basically
What's the IP address
Corresponding to cnn.com
It was no answer section yet
Then there's some Authority authoritative information
which is just representing the various
For this top-level domain
where you could look up to figure out that answer
So
just going on within the same query
other would be additional information corresponding to what those top level with the top level domain name
server names would correspond to in IP addresses so I can see that's a this suck at the G1
The g
Gtld - service
Net the A&M record for that would correspond to this IP address
This one 92
30 timing information for this in which server had replied
If we go back and look we ask ask the root server labeled a
That's the server that had replied
Brett
So after we figure it out
Okay
I can go look up at a what what this response means is it
I can go
Ask now this route server with the subdomain
a
how to get to cnn.com again
We didn't run this in the in the recursive mode
So now
if I ask one of the top level domain servers
how to get to cnn.com
I just pick one of them that had replied
what will see now
And in some of the responses for cnn.com
we could access that with this other domain name
for this TW
DNS
Text
your one
And ask that aol.com
So that be that the
Domain name server for cnn.com then
There'd be some additional information and coding
What were the actual IP addresses corresponding to those hosts names for those two servers
Rats are moving along then
So we'll do one more query
If we now go query one of those particular domain name servers
We just picked one of them
Random arbitrarily out of the four that came back with the response and we ask it what the IP address for www.cnn.com has
That was the question that we ask that the NS server and we're asking at what is the IP address
Corresponding to that domain name
the response back that we get and the answer
From the DNS system is that www.cnn.com is a c name or an alias for cnn.com
And then any of these IP addresses should work if you want to access www.cnn.com
So if you typed in your web browser any of these addresses
they should all take you to cnn.com
So there could be more than one as you can see and this could be for various load-balancing reasons that we mentioned a little bit earlier having these geographically distributed so that perhaps we'll look up or accessing that website would be faster in a certain region of the world
You you might be directed to use a particular one of those servers based on that kind of criteria
right
But this is how we would have started manual
Gone through that process of getting what IP address correspondent to www.cnn.com
So that's a little bit of an overview of the DNS protocol
all the different types of resource record so I can eat AMC names and what some of the information would look like when the queries in the DNS system were actually occurring